Welcome back.
If you didn't finish the exercise,
that's okay because we're
going to be doing it together.
By the way, in your index.js there's
a lot of helpful comments and
in the index.final.js that's going to
really help you when you get stuck
because that contains the pretty
much the answer to everything.
So first let's take a look
about how we could use
a nested switch statements in
order to transition our machine.
So, I'm just gonna copy paste this over.
And so
you see we're switching on the states.
If it's inactive, and we get a CLICK,
which I named uppercase CLICK,
then we return the active state.
If we're in the active states, and
we get a CLICK,
then we go to the inactive states.
Now we need some way of keeping
track of each of these states.
So we could say like
currentState equals inactive
because that's going to
be our initial state.
And then we determine the next
value of currentState by
saying const nextState equals
transition currentState event.
And this is going to return the nextState
based on the currentState in the event or
it's just going to return the currentState
if there is no nextState.
So once we determine the nextState,
we need to keep track of it.
So we'll set currentState
equal to the nextState.
And then we could change
the data states property.
Or the data state attribute of the box
elements to that current states,
which is really cool,
because it's a very easy way in JavaScript
in order to put those attributes
right on the elements.
And so the last thing we need to do is we
need to actually send that CLICK event.
So whenever this box is clicked,
we're going to send that event and
hopefully it's going to change,
but start it's okay to start.
Again, if you see that error,
you could just save and it goes away.
And so now when you click, we'll see
that it moves from active to inactive,
to active and back to inactive.
So let's talk about this a little more.
What we're doing is we're
literally reducing our logic in our
event handlers to just one thing.
We're sending in events.
That's all we're doing.
And we're sending it to the central
place that contains all of our logic.
Now, of course, these switch
statements are pretty verbose.
So if you did the extra credit,
you hopefully you got
the objects in text down.
So let's sort of redo all of this and
actually use object syntax.
So instead of this,
we wants to create the machine.
So we're going to say const machine
equals and we're going to have an object.
The initial state is going to be inactive
and there's going to be two states.
There's going to be the inactive state and
the active state.
In the inactive state, when we receive
a CLICK, we go to the active state.
Similarly, in the active state,
when we receive a CLICK,
we go to the inactive states.
And so the role of the transition
is to read this object and
determine the next state
based on the events.
So we could do that by saying,
return machine.states,
we get the states .on events.
And if that doesn't return anything,
then we just return the states.
And so hopefully we didn't
have to change anything else.
So that should work exactly the same way.
Let's console.log the nextState,
just to make sure.
All right, so we're transitioning back and
forth between active and inactive.
By the way, if you want to know
how I showed this at the bottom,
by using the data-state attribute
if we go into the styles.
We can see that we're actually
outputting that data state
attribute right on to the elements
of data states right over here.
We have an after pseudo elements, and
we could just put that
data-state right there.
And this makes it really easy
to inspect what the state is.